Let's quickly see shorthands in action then. As I said, we already use shorthands,
the backgrounds are shorthand,
the padding actually is a shorthand,
it works like the margin. Margin is one,
here we use the longer form,
now we can get rid of that and instead simply use border 5 pixels solid black or any other order of
these values.
The margin here of course is a shorthand
and with that, let's inspect that in the developer tools and see how they can help us with that.
If we again select the first section where we have padding, border, margin and background, so where we
already have four shorthands, in the developer tools you can always click this tiny arrow here to see which
long form properties are combined.
And here you see all the properties that make up the background,
again this is something I'll dive into later,
this is simply a very complex way since you can also use background images which you can then position
with the various subproperties, for solid colors, they don't matter
but there you see, we implicitly set background color by assigning a color to background.
So this would be the long form property name,
background color. For the padding,
we see that this could be split up into padding top, right, bottom and left
and it works as I said, just like the margin and for the border, we see actually we got a bit more.
We don't just have border style, color and width, we can even set long form properties for the different
sides,
so for the top border, we could style that differently than the bottom border.
So this is how shorthands are combined here
and this is just something to be aware of,
you can always use the long form and if you just want to set a margin top for example, it's better to
just set margin top rather than margin with the four values syntax and then set three of them to zero.
But you can always use both
and behind the scenes, this is what will get rendered.